---	
layout: default	
title: "10: Con't Feel Dan't Dare"	
date: 2021-04-24 12:00:00 -0000	
categories:	
---

## 10: Con't Feel Dan't Dare 

Linus Torvald-s, an interesting hacker. His early life involves the classic nerd image. Being good at math and science without ever really trying. Tinkering with and indulging himself in the electronics he found. To be honest, I'm not sure how much I personally relate to his early life. For me, my first real interactions with a computer was when I turned 6, when I made an account for Neopets. Years later, I grew interested in a guild system on the site, and it was my goal to make a popular guild that other players would _want_ to be in. I made basic HTML pages from examples I found online. It was great, because I wanted to learn how to make my own cool web pages, and here I was, finding out how to do it through pure curiousity. But then, it stopped. I then dabbled a bit in Unity3D a bit, but never really hit that sweet spot of tinkering on my own just for the sake of doing something for fun ever again.

Neither of my parents were big with computers, and so I naturally grew inclined to Computer Science because of gaming. I wasn't really a star in math or science. That is, I was good at memorizing formulas to get good grades, but I didn't have a lot of intuition for basics growing up. And so I always had weird ways of memorizing facts to solve certain problems when I could have just _understood_ those problems and been able to solve them easily without the memorization part. On the contrary, when I actually need to memorize things, like a year something happened in history or the names of cells in biology, I'd never be good at it because I hated purposely memorizing things. So this really doesn't make sense. (Education just really isn't a good system for me!) In conclusion, I think I'm just overall super lazy and unmotivated to do a lot of things.

Linus has the whole idea of creating things for fun, and I think that's the important takeaway. Create things for fun. I think it's a _mistake_ to focus a lot on his upbringing, and even those of Bill Gates or Steve Jobs. I'm not willing to study their childhoods because it's something of mine that I can't change. Even if there appears to be some sort of correlation between the way these figures lived their lives, there's no telling the thousand-fold of people who've lived nearly indentical childhoods to them yet hadn't been lucky enough to reach the same levels of success. I just want to live my own life given my own cards, instead of trying to follow in the footsteps of someone else, which I feel is really hard not to do if you're reading an autobiography of theirs.

It'd be nice to make my own programming language, or operating system. But I'm pretty sure I won't. Doesn't seem the slightest bit fun, and I don't have any needs or wants that would sway me enough into making my own entire operating system for fun. I've mentioned my plans before, and I don't like to talk about it that much because plans are extremely volatile, but overall I'd just like to be content however I end up. The lives of these successful figures are irrelevant to me. 
