## 01: Winner-P? Nil. Loser-P? T.

At last taking the time to read what was due to read, I grew to understand the tenets of the hacker ethic, and to certain people, what constitutes a true hacker. Steven Levy takes his time to tell the stories of multiple MIT hackers who―playing with computers such as the TX-0, then PDP-1, followed by the PDP-6―were able to almost uniformly conform to these unspoken tenets as if these ex-students were some kind of bots.

Trudging through Levy's storytelling of the hacker ethic, I couldn't help but think about how much I wasn't a hacker. I was definitely, by hacker terms, a loser. I wouldn't define myself a loser as far as those ignoramus graduate students who pretended to know things they didn't, but I definitely fell into the more subtle category as one. Apparently, the sole critereon was _hacking ability._ I was called out directly by the book when Levy had written: **"you could be bright, sensitive, and willing to learn, and still be considered a loser."** Thinking back to how much I relied on the TAs in a course like Systems Programming, and how I still use grades and high salary as one of my core motivators, I must shamelessly confess that I'm a loser! There's something I find important to note, however, and that's how the term of being a winner or loser isn't something stagnant. Despite the lack of inspiration and passion I have to dive into something I don't yet understand and explore, I have a hope that it's just my emo (scratch that, _lazy_) phase and that I could redeem myself whenever... I _feel_ like it.

You see, this kind of characteristic of mine is something I am fully conscious of and yet don't do anything to fix it. Why? Well, because that's the nature of the characterstic. I have a habit of pondering on things rather than _actually doing it._ You may think, "oh! That's because you're likely planning things out to ensure maximal success once you finally embark on your exploration! Right?" True to some extent, if you consider "planning things" to be a terse (yet verbal) ponder and then remove the "ensure maximal success" and "embark" parts of your phrase. What's left is something along the lines of: "Hey everyone! I think I wanna do something cool this winter break. I want to start making this video game. I've thought of a basic idea and I can't wait to start learning how to implement it." Fast forward to weeks ahead, literally nothing has happened.

Thankfully, this behavior isn't something that appears totally looked down upon by hackers. The character I resonated most from this read was Slug Russell. Though probably more capable and more a geek than I am, Levy wrote of Slug the same way I thought of my own behavior: "After he made the mistake of opening up his big mouth about this program he was going to write, the PDP-1 hackers, always eager to see another hack added to the growing pile of paper tapes in the drawer, urged him to _do it._" That's me. I have a big-ass mouth and can't help myself from mentioning something _I want_ to do, yet never get to. There's always a hurdle in my way, and I always treat that hurdle as something completely impassable when I know damn well that it is. I need to adopt more to the **Hands-On Imperative** and just _do it_ instead of _talking_ about _doing it_. 

Evaluating a few other hacker ethic tenets, I can't disagree with _creating art and beauty_ or _judging people solely on their hacking_, nor can I disagree that _all information should be free_ or that _decentralization_ is the way to go. However, I'm not sure if the latter two are worth pursuing, because I question whether they're actually obtainable. As concepts and problems grow increasingly complex, so do the mental gymnastics our minds have to go through to understand and solve those problems and concepts. At one point or another, due to the level of energy we've devoted to creating or discovering something, we should involuntarily feel that our work deserves something material as payment. It's too perfect of a scenario where every hacker would be able to spend months or years on something incredible, all for them to hand it out for free. Second of all, regarding decentralization, it sounds impossible. There's always a higher status that will be in control. In my eyes, an example of this is when the AI lab at MIT ran out of funding due to the Manfield Act. The hackers at the AI lab were never really in control because all they did was made possible by ARPA funds.

Finally appears the statement of whether computers can change your life for the better. Given the word _can_, I _can_ wholeheartedly agree with this. I do believe that the hackers at MIT were way too extreme for my taste. Going 30 hours in a 24-hour day is way to much, and sacrificing hygiene and overall health just to hack is too much for me to understand. Seeing these hacker's habits had me questioning why they couldn't tone it down. What was the rush? Have you no self control? Sure, while I may not have much self-control myself (*cough* video games *cough*), these people took it to an entire new level of insanity. In response, the life of SAIL hackers were able to answer me. They were able to adopt to the hacker ethic just as well without taking anything to an extreme. Though not covered as extensively as the hackers who developed at MIT, their kind of lifestyle was one that I can see myself striving for. They'd struck passion and hacked at a blissful pace. Is that passion is attainable myself? Not sure. But I sure can hope it is. The only next step would be to shut up already and _do it_.
