---	
layout: default	
title: "04: Big Company Bad"	
date: 2021-03-06 12:00:00 -0000	
categories:	
---

## 04: Big Company Bad

Paul Graham's essays are interesting. They're really conversational, but personally challenging to retain. Upon reading some of his essays, I found myself to resonate with some of the things written so much that they agreed with my own internal monologue. So much that I had some difficulty highlighting the opinions that differed from my own. Get ready for the incoming dumpster fire of words!

First, Graham talks about our teenage school hierarchy, involving the stereotypical "popular kids" and "nerds." He begins by working out the difference between the two groups, with comparisons that I'm pretty sure anyone would be familiar with, regardless of whether you've actually experienced the American education path. It's the kind of typical stuff dramatized about every high school in almost every movie ever. The protagonist is the smart kid who is novice at social interaction, and gets picked on by the not-so-bright popular kids who either have relatively better looks, athletic ability, wealth, or all of the above.  I've been lucky enough to have grown up in school environments nowhere near as toxic as those described by Graham, but that doesn't mean I disagree about them still existing today. I'm not the biggest fan of his generalization and separation of these two groups as if everyone can be labeled as one or the other (or somewhere in between), but he makes one distinction between nerds and popular kids that _was_ interesting: the claim that popular kids subconsciously devote their time and efforts to maintaining (or gaining) their popularity, while nerds subconsciously devote their time and efforts to becoming smarter. The result is that nerds didn't devote as much time and effort into the popularity contest, and are thus "unpopular." And the latter devotion has the benefit that it's more applicable to the real world, where the kid-fabricated society found in schools is no longer prominent. I find it overall interesting that Graham chose to focus on the hidden community that schools unintentionally cultivate. Though I do have a slight issue with how he just seems to state the problem without offering any potential solutions. Seems like the biggest problem is making teenagers realize earlier how the search for knowledge is important, while school's popularity contest is pointless. If that message was gotten across, the hierarchy of popularity might just totally vanish (assuming the kids are smart enough to weigh the meanings of importance and pointlessness). Really, in my opinion, it doesn't seem that important to fix this problem. First of all, I have no idea how this problem could be solved, so if someone else has a better idea, they should do it because I don't care enough about it to fix it, especially given my privilege of not having experienced such a toxic environment. Second of all, is it really that big a problem? Sure, degenerates who put all their energy into maintaining their image will continue to reproduce, but nerds will, too. Nerds are still being made, and I'm content with that. Our society is also seeming to become more and more sensitive to literally everything, so maybe this harsh hierarchy will just cease to exist from that fact itself. With how much we can't say today, what will the popular kids be able to say to effectively be dominant to the nerds?

Wow, that gives a good connection to Graham's other essay, about what we can't say! Not sure why we had to read this, to be honest. It matches one of the internal monologues I've had before. Yes, it's very important to form our own thoughts, regardless of how controversial it may be viewed to the general public if we were to say it aloud. It's additionally important to form discussions about these otherwise _forbidden_ thoughts with close friends we can trust. Doesn't everyone just kinda do this already? What makes Graham think that a lot of people are _actually_ too afraid of thinking what they'd like to think? Maybe whatever I believe is controversial in my mind isn't controversial enough to apply to what he's referring to. I guess what he wants us to do is think even further than we already may be, since he _does_ mention that people who think they're super open-minded (I think I do) are actually the opposite. Most people draw a line that they won't cross during discourse, and that is the line of what Graham calls us to think past. But after this, comes the problem where I don't know what I should be thinking more about. Yes, Graham does spend the majority of his essay discussing ways to discover what should be thought about further, but I don't have any desire to do this any more than I already am. It doesn't seem like it would be enriching at all, since the current internal monologues I have with myself leave me content. Anything further and I feel like I'd really be uncomfortable. Yes, Graham _would_ yell at me for saying that, but I'm a lazy person. I don't feel like being a philosopher and I'm unable to see how I can apply his methods to anything relevant enough for me to pursue.

When Graham writes specifically about hackers, many of the things match up pretty well with Steven Levy's stories of hackers. My idea of a true hacker is _still_ those MIT AI lab students. I haven't yet been able to get that idea of a hacker out of my mind. Neither the Homebrew nor On-Line hackers really stuck on me for my idea of what a true hacker is, though all three generations do have several things in common. Graham explains that hacking is a medium, just like painting or playwriting, and that these days are the glory days of it. Hacking should be done on the fly, as malleable as can be. It's to build on something that already exists or to make it better, and these things were all embodied in all generations of hackers of the computer revolution. Graham basically reiterates some tenets of the hacker ethic without explicitly mentioning the term. Hackers enjoy the freedom of information, and the declining civil liberties we're being given (namely with intellectual property) are an undeserved punishment to these hackers. Without the freedom of information, hackers are unable to express the rest of the hacker ethic, namely to create art and beauty on the computer to their fullest potential. There is another stance Graham takes involving big companies vs. startups that matches Levy's stories, and that's how big companies aren't able to keep up with real hackers. Big companies have many more logistics to take care of, and therefore are unable to be as flexible as, say, a startup consisting of all hackers who can take as many risks as they want because they're starting from ground-zero. Specifically, Graham mentions Apple and how the hackers were able to make the next generation computer, whereas IBM were thinking they were going to create the next big thing. Another example I can think of involves the On-Line company, how they were able to become so successful because they started as a small comapny consisting of Ken William, the hacker (and his wife). Having an Apple computer all to himself and no limits on what he was to do and not to do under his own supervision, he was able to let loose and make things never made before. Nowadays, these "never-before-made" things are way harder to find, but nevertheless exist. Finally, Graham also mentioned something that was creepy enough to match my own plans for the future, about the "day job" and "night job." I figured that my dream to one day have the motiviation and develop my own independent video game for fun will never happen in an actual job setting, because I'm money-hungry and want that bag of cash anyway, and that's not going to happen with some risks if I made my video game and did _only_ that. So, in my head, I settled that I don't care what I do for a day job, as long as it makes that cash. I could be bored out of my mind, and that'll be fine with me because I'm making that bag. Then, I could go home, play some video games, and hopefully even start developing it when I find that wave of motivation that comes once in a blue moon. And that's the worst-case scenario! I could be lucky and find a day day that I actually enjoy and have fun with. Then, when I go home, I can continue to game dev and be happy at that time too. So I'll be somewhere between 50% to 100% happy with my daily life. Good enough for me!

Anyway, that's the end of my post. I bet this entire dumpster mound of words is extremely hard to follow, and I'm not even sure I answered the prompt to the fullest I could have. But I _did_ manage to write what I wanted to, and I hope that'll be all that really matters.

### [<center>Home</center>](https://nuolong.github.io/hacker-blog/)
